---
layout: minutes
date: 15/16 October 2019
title: Publishing Business Group — 15/16 October 2019
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Business Group — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Business Group",
        "dateCreated": "15/16 October 2019",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Business Group",
            "startDate": "15/16 October 2019",
            "endDate": "15/16 October 2019",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "liisa mccloy-kelley"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Junko Kamata"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni)"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Murata Makoto"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jeff Jaffe"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Business Group — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 15/16 October 2019

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/10/16-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Junko Kamata, Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni), Murata Makoto, Jeff Jaffe

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** liisa mccloy-kelley

**Scribe(s):** Liisa McCloy-Kelley

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Murata Makoto:* I will have to leave in 30 minutes.

> *Murata Makoto:* Dates and new format for the meeting. Daihei emailed about them.

### 1. meeting dates
{: #section1}

**Murata Makoto:** Our Asian meeting schedule.  
… 1 hour earlier from next month  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** meetings on Nov. 13th and Dec. 11th at earlier time is ok  

**Shinya Takami:** Meeting time will be the same (9:00 AM) in Japan, right?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** not earlier in Japan- apologies!  

> *Murata Makoto:* 1 hour earlier in EDT, but no changes in JST

### 2. TPAC F2F - enjoyed and happy to hear about the writing mode recommendations
{: #section2}

**Murata Makoto:** PR for CSS Writing Modes was good news  

### 3. EPUB Roadmap
{: #section3}

**Murata Makoto:** have not heard the discussion from the CG about the EPUB roadmap, want us to send links  

> *Murata Makoto:* Liisa will provide references to the roadmap discussion.

> *Murata Makoto:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mAqdj2HTN7p8cgncToA7yRCKmz5trLTZ4ATI7trl7KM/edit#heading=h.eszf0tmwgc6u](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mAqdj2HTN7p8cgncToA7yRCKmz5trLTZ4ATI7trl7KM/edit#heading=h.eszf0tmwgc6u)

**Jeff Jaffe:** exciting to see the CG go to the roadmapping effort, would like to see more participation from Asia and find some way to enable  
… if there are enhancements to talk about now is a great time to discuss  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* Takami has noted that Images in spine for Digital Sequential Art is important

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** is that something you are doing now that you want to maintain?  

**Shinya Takami:** addressed the same thing at TPAC  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** possible good news, amazon may take EPUB manga  

**Murata Makoto:** EPUB reading systems do not have good performance for page turn for Manga  

> *Murata Makoto:* Takami said that Amazon is one of the big players but there are other key players.

**Shinya Takami:** in Japan new services for manga were born in recent years, and they are using some EPUB and some images in spine  
… The new eBook services will extract just images from EPUB files we (publisher) provide, and it's too simple to say the format.  
… But we have some indication like page spread or ordering in EPUB (OPF) but they will tend to omit to understand such features.  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Sounds like a suboptimal approach. Can we do better with enhancements to EPUB?  
… maybe there are kluges and we could do better  

**Shinya Takami:** I think we should simplify the EPUB file for Manga content.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** are there other enhancements that might help? or is it an implementation problem?  
… what would you simplify in the EPUB?  

**Shinya Takami:** XHTML and CSS will not be necessary for display images, especially for Manga.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** so it gets back to images in spine and an OPF file with instructions  

**Shinya Takami:** Yes.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Do you ever have navigation from page to page to link to stories on pages?  
… will send a visual example of what I mean  

**Shinya Takami:** OK, thanks.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** would it be helpful to have community group calls sometimes in good hours for Asia?  

**Shinya Takami:** Yes.  
… It's not easy to join CG meeting from Japan.  

### 4. Accessibility needs and expectations for readers across different territories
{: #section4}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** is it an interesting topic to think about?  
… are there things for your territory that are not well addressed?  

### 5. EPUBcheck fundraising
{: #section5}

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* [https://www.w3.org/publishing/epubcheck_fundraising](https://www.w3.org/publishing/epubcheck_fundraising)

### 6. Business Issues on the Horizon for Digital Publications
{: #section6}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I see reports that graphic novels in North America are about 9% digital, but at the same time am starting to see  
… interest in settling out panelization and best practices for experiences across comics, manga, graphic novels  

> *Shinya Takami:* New GoToMeeting app of iOS was unstable...

### 7. Books That Can't Be Made or Not Well
{: #section7}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** will start to gather in emails and sheets notes of types of publications we cannot make or are not well implemented  
… please get involved with this work and with the CG work on the EPUB roadmap  

---
