---
layout: minutes
date: 28 May 2019
title: Publishing Business Group Telecon — 28 May 2019
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Business Group Telecon — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Business Group Telecon",
        "dateCreated": "28 May 2019",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Business Group Telecon",
            "startDate": "28 May 2019",
            "endDate": "28 May 2019",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Dave Cramer"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Wendy Reid"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shinya Takami"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Junko Kamata"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jun’Ichi Yoshii"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Murata Makoto"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Business Group Telecon — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 28 May 2019

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/05/28-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Dave Cramer, Shinya Takami, Junko Kamata, Wendy Reid, Jun’Ichi Yoshii, Murata Makoto

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer, Wendy Reid

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** let's get started  

### 1. audio books
{: #section1}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** the web publication framework can be a framework for profiles  
… and audio books is an example  
… we should know the status of the audiobook standard in US and Europe  
… can someone give us an update?  

**Wendy Reid:** the spec should be published as fpwd very soon  
… we are reaching out to publishers in north america and europe  
… we've had limited success with american publishers and apa (audio publisher's association)  
… but apa has been reluctant to work with us  
… for reasons we don't fully understand  
… on the euro side Luc has spoken to audiolivre  
… I've spoken to publishers etc in the nordic countries and in the netherlands  
… and I'm now in contact with a UK publisher  
… I've spoke to Canadian publishers  
… we're getting there  
… if you know of any Asian publishers interested in audio, please let me know  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I was speaking to Luc re: europe  
… he wants to know more realistically how audiobook standard is being considered by audio publishers in europe  
… so he will send out notes, to ask what they think of standardization  
… and to find out what kind of tools they are using  
… which could lead to knowledge about what file formats they're using  
… and then we could discuss this info in pbg  
… and describe how a standard could help the industry be more efficient  
… so he will get that info from Europe  
… re: asia  
… in Japan, audio book is very limited market so far  
… smartphone and pcs--they are cabable of using audiobook formats like mp3 or flac  
… since they're used for music :)  
… but business of audiobook is so limited  
… so they are not eager to take a risk to develop the market  
… but there are a few specialized publishers in Japan who will try to expand the market  
… and those publishers could follow the standardization at w3c  
… Amazon is aggressively marketing audible in Japan  
… so the market might grow  
… in Taiwan, ttdp representative janni mentioned it wasn't a big market  
… I don't know about china  

**Wendy Reid:** it sounds like there is a market, even if it's small  
… this might be a good time  
… if amazan is aggressive, then this is a good time for standardization to help people keep up  
… in europe they're eager because it's not a mature market  
… we can show that a standard makes their life easier  
… is there some industry organization? or do we reach out individually?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any comment from anyone else?  

**Shinya Takami:** it's a small market, but we have interest in generating audiobooks  
… we have some audiobooks with character voices  
… if market gets bigger, we support standardization  
… and some ebook stores have interest in distributing these  

**Wendy Reid:** I'm a big manga reader, and I hear about live character versions  
… I'm glad there's a market  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** anyone else?  
… the smart speaker devices like amazon or google  
… that's been expanding  
… and in cars  
… beyond radio, ipads, etc  
… there could be new places for products to be available  
… podcasting is growing in Japan, too  
… there are opportunities because of these new things  
… we should bring this info to the pbg meeting next week  
… and further discuss standardization  
… any other comments?  
… Luc wanted to ask what kind of tools the audiobook publishers are using most  

**Wendy Reid:** the name that comes up is pro tools  
… daisy has obi  
… and there are small free options  
… and there are web-based podcast tools  
… but pro tools is the biggest  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** we need to talk about wp, epub 3.2, epubcheck, the audio profile...  
… are there any other profiles we want to focus on?  
… anyone from japan have comments?  
… my understanding is that, in the US, that kid's books and cookbooks, with graphic oriented content  
… is something that people are looking for  
… there's lots of talk about comic/manga  
… but most japanese manga publishers are not keen to change formats away from epub 3  
… because the market is good  
… changing formats will increase costs  
… and the market would be confused  
… although comics/manga might be the next profile of wp, but I think more general graphic content should be the next profile  

**Dave Cramer:** I don't necessarily think we need a graphics oriented profile. The point of WP was to have full access with the web  
… the web is overflowing with recipes and things, lots of rich graphic design, CSS is evolving with flexbox and grid  
… I am not sure how this would be different from any other web publication  

> *Murata Makoto:* Takashi Asano, CTO of Media Do Intl, wrote that he would welcome standardization of vertically scrollable manga

**Shinya Takami:** manga content in japan is image-based fixed layout  
… but we have no way to search text  
… which is a problem  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** so you're saying web publication of manga which might be able to provide search capability  

**Shinya Takami:** yes  
… we need new functionality  
… to search Japanese magazines or manga  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any other comments on profiles  

**Wendy Reid:** two things  
… Makoto comments about vertically-scrollable manga  
… as someone who is familiar with FXL  
… I think that's a use case for reading systems. Kobo already does this.  
… the spec could maybe have metadata to request that, but it should be a user setting  
… the other thing... I think search could be solvable by creating epubs in a different way  
… you can include text in books, that then making it searchable  
… reading systems need to make this better  
… I don't think wp would address where epub couldn't  
… I don't think wp could do better than the bon appetit website :)  

> *Murata Makoto:* First, very tall JPEG images (such as those used in webtoon) are intractable.

> *Murata Makoto:* Second, to help the communication between editors and authors, it would  be nice if we have a format that allows combination  of image and text.

> *Murata Makoto:* People would like to slightly revise text.

> *Murata Makoto:* Rasterized text is again difficult to handle.

> *Murata Makoto:* This is what Ogata-san said in Tokyo WS.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any comments on vertical scrolling?  
… web publication of manga with text search?  
… we can bring this over to the pbg meeting next week  

**Wendy Reid:** rasterized text is indeed difficult to handle  
… FXL is maybe not as lovingly embraced by reading systems as it should be :)  
… i've seen text on a separate layer, and could be edited  
… that's a style choice  
… the publishers used image background and position: fixed for text  

> *Murata Makoto:* No standardized formats for the combination of text and image are available.

**Wendy Reid:** and that's a solution  
… some reading systems don't support it  
… it's possible on the web  

> *Murata Makoto:* True.

**Wendy Reid:** it's possible in epub3 today  
… wp would be using the same html and css as epub :)  

> *Murata Makoto:* What we have to establish is an industrial convention.

**Wendy Reid:** I don't think a standard would make it any better  

> *Murata Makoto:* EPUB3 can do everything.  But people can do nothing without a convention

**Wendy Reid:** this may be a question for css?  

> *Murata Makoto:* Or, some group in Publishing@W3C might want to publish a convention.

> *Murata Makoto:* The same thing applies to tall JPEG images.  If we have a format (again a convention) for combining smaller images, we do not have to handle intractable images.

**Dave Cramer:** I'm not entirely clear what the problem is, I can position text wherever it is needed with CSS  
… a lot of the text in manga is handwriting or art. We have made fonts of author's handwriting  
… there is not a magical solution to this problem, we could use layers or alt text  
… an old spec that was never used  (b&N?), there's no way to make CSS treat art as text  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any comment?  

> *Murata Makoto:* This is probably not a base standard issue.  This is a profile issue.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** we can discuss at the next meeting. dauwhe and wendyreid can help.  

> *Murata Makoto:* Next time, I will try to fix my mic.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** our focal point should be on business cases  
… we also talked about educational / academic publications  
… we can elaborate these later  

### 2. global communication on epub 3.2 and epubcheck 4.2.1
{: #section2}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** it's already announced  
… and some testimonials were already given  
… one proposed apl testimonial  
… (daihei reads testimonial)  
… if this is to be posted, then the pbg should approve this  
… any comments  

> *Dave Cramer:* +2

> *Jun’Ichi Yoshii:* +1

> *Junko Kamata:* +1

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I'll tell w3c that we approve :)  
… any ideas about pr?  
… could anyone comment on this?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I'm approaching industry bodies to come up with some press releases or supportive interviews  
… to be in japanese industry publications  
… I hope these will come out shortly  
… and there are events like the digital publishing summit in Paris at the end of june  
… I'll talk there, about how epub has helped market expansion in japan  
… any other news or ideas about public relations re: epub 3.2?  
… today the pbg co-chair luc has sent everyone a notice about the advisory board election is until 30 May 2019  
… all AC reps, please vote soon  
… and consider Avneesh, our pbg colleague  

> *Murata Makoto:* +1 > dauwhe

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** and we have the digital publishing summit program available now  
… with many pbg folks speaking  
… and we need to work on the program for the pbg meeting on thursday at tpac in fukuoka  
… and registration is now open  
… and the better price is only available until june 21  
… and you can look at the registration link  
… otherwise I'll talk about prep for the tpac f2f  
… it will be three hours, 9-12  
… overall coordination will be done by pbg co-chairs Luc, Daihei, and Liisa  
… we need to find a program committee to help us  
… if you want to volunteer, please send a message to one of the chairs  
… and we will provide a first draft agenda  
… an intro by murai-san  
… a11y in japan  
… wp profiles  

> *Murata Makoto:* How much do external attendees have to pay to attend the meeting?

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** some of the agenda could be decided by japanese pbg members and invited guests, and could be in japanese with translation  
… and when people speak in english it could be translated to japanese  
… makoto was asking about price for attending just the pbg f2f  
… but what about outside members?  
… I will have to ask w3c about this  
… any comments?  
… we have covered the agenda  
… thanks everyone  


---
