---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-11-13/14
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2018-11-13/14
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-11-13/14

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2018Nov/0043.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/11/14-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni), Julie Blair, Bobby Tung, Daihei Shiohama, Bill Kasdorf, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Murata Makoto, ShinyaTakami, Rick Johnson, Jeff Jaffe, Karen Myers, Jun-ichi Yoshii

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Scribe(s):** Jeff Jaffe, Karen Myers

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. EPUB3 Roadmap: plan to promote EPUB3.2 as W3C REC
{: #section1}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Shall we dive right in or go through Luc's note  

**Murata Makoto:** Not everyone has seen Luc's note.  
… a quick overview of Luc's note would be useful.  
… Is there a link to Luc's email?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Luc's message is in the agenda  

**Rick Johnson:** To clarify, it is at the bottom of the agenda  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** At TPAC we discussed that EPUB 3.2 at the same time as EPUB 4.0 in 2020 would be confusing to the marketplace  
… it would slow 3.2 adoption  
… discussed how to get wide adoption of 3.2  
… pointed out issues of interop  
… hard to make an epub file that is guaranteed to work  
… lots of bugs  
… raised need for testing for all features  
… how to convince the market to move forward with 3.2  
… discussions at TPAC between WG and BG  
… also new requirements for Audiobooks  
… EPUB 3 could not do that job  
… Importance of ISO to Asian participants  
… (to be discussed tonight)  
… with the recognition that 3.2 is only a CG today  
… That led to a discussion of a EPUB 3.2 W3C Recommendation.  
… fix bugs  
… encourage interop  
… work with reading systems  
… BG would help with advice  
… a REC would help encourage people to fix bugs  
… get to faster adoption of ISO standard as well  
… help the Asian marketplace  
… with that TPAC summary, what do you think?  
… is ISO important  

> *Murata Makoto:* I do not think that Japanese publishers need an ISO/IEC standard for EPUB 3.2 strongly.

> *Murata Makoto:* But a CG report is certainly a second class citizen.

> *Murata Makoto:* But Korea strongly like ISO/IEC standards for EPUB.

**Murata Makoto:** Japanese publishers don't care  
… but people care for accessibility (e.g. Daisy)  
… helps with government adoption  
… Korea cares  
… EPUB 3.0 for ISO was Korea's request  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** So publishers don't care in Japan, but accessibility cares and Korea cares  

**Bill Kasdorf:** So Korean publishers will do EPUB 3.2 because we have a TS.  

**Murata Makoto:** We only have a TS for EPUB 3.0  

**Bill Kasdorf:** So Koreans are stuck with 3.0?  

**Murata Makoto:** Don't know what they want for 3.2.  

**Bobby Tung:** ISO important for government in Taiwan  
… important for reading system for 3.2  
… and globally  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Sounds like significant portions of Asia where a 3.2 ISO would be a help.  True?  

**Bobby Tung:** Yes.  
… but publishers care about when reading systems will have new version which is a global issue  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Comments?  Worries about this direction?  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Depending on the process, is there a danger that the spec of the CG would be changed?  

**Murata Makoto:** Quite unlikely.  
… most are opposed to divergence.  
… so if there are changes there will be no consensus  
… I will oppose technical divergence  
… e.g. Canada requested changes to 3.0  
… we resisted all of them.  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* good, thanks

**Jeff Jaffe:** I wanted to share with folks on this call, when we did merger with IDPF  
… we established a direction for Web Publications and EPUB4  
… at TPAC 2018 some were concerned if staff was bought in  
… for the EPUB3.2 to go onto the rec track  
… from my perspective, when we agreed to merger,  
… we agreed not to a fixed point strategy  
… but we agreed to shepherd the community in whatever direction they feel best and we are fully supportive of that  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Again: concerns?  pros and cons?  

> *Bobby Tung:* [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17CyIqihtjjzT7Abbcq9sSqLNqLGKs2cuXdg4DcFulGY/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17CyIqihtjjzT7Abbcq9sSqLNqLGKs2cuXdg4DcFulGY/edit?usp=sharing)

**Jeff Jaffe:** also want to add another point of interest  
… Next week I'm in Beijing and in two weeks I am in Tokyo  
… Keio host is arranging my schedule  
… I understand it is quite busy with AB and government meetings  
… but if anyone would like to discuss [publishing] this with me while in Tokyo, please get in touch with Naomi Yoshizawa  
… and I'm happy to meet with people while I am there  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** thank you, Bobby, for dropping in the link to the Google doc with the pros and cons  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We discussed having a REC track task force  
… collect ideas across groups  
… specific proposals  
… how to get this done  
… might this slow down the work of the WG?  
… would we need to recharter?  

**Rick Johnson:** The decision to look at 3.2 must mean we slow down something  
… it implicitly slows down EPUB 4  
… when we get Audio/Manga up to speed, it puts a governor on those  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* does it slow down WP though?

**Murata Makoto:** I would like to see EPUB 3 as a REC as is  
… without dropping features  
… validate what is in the market  
… Japanese publishers already have reasonable interop  
… due to EBPAJ profile  
… but I understand the issue of interop in general  
… with enough interest we can do it  

**Rick Johnson:** I understand the hesitancy to remove a feature  
… but unknown  
… are you OK with moving forward even if we don't know for sure  
… so can we proceed with the next step?  

**Murata Makoto:** Next step will take much effort  
… Japanese publishers will not do testing again  
… Do others from Japan agree?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** My question, Makoto, do you not already feel you have two implementations of every feature in the profile  

**Murata Makoto:** For example, in @@@, no implementation is perfect  
… but publishers know to avoid certain features  
… we have interop; but not at the feature level  
… publishers avoid certain Unicode characters for some feature  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** So it depends on how we define a feature  
… Is full Unicode support a feature, or subdividable  

**Murata Makoto:** If we will not drop any feature in the EBPAJ profile, I will feel more comfortable.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Any other input?  
… we don't have such a profile for NA  
… maybe that will come out of the testing  

**Murata Makoto:** Regional profile sometimes makes sense  
… e.g. for vertical writing  
… not needed in NA  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Somewhat circular  
… people don't want features removed  
… but it needs 2 implementations  
… if feature is widely used is it an implementation  

**Jeff Jaffe:** the devil is in the details  
… Liisa already hinted at that when she said, 'is full Unicode compliance subdividable; interpreted that as being fully implemented  
… subset feature, what has been implemented, means it is interoperable  

**Bill Kasdorf:** that makes sense  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** When we are talking about the spec and features, we need to define what we mean.  
… so we can do it in a way that we don't lose features  
… couldn't think of such a feature at TPAC.  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Also wanted to add  
… we discussed if feature only done by single implementation  
… there is option to leave it in the standard as informative rather than normative requirement  

**Murata Makoto:** Something may be implemented by one EPUB reading system  
… but still in the market  
… we should not make it informative  
… could be examples in ibooks  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Here is a PRH example for scripting  
… we have javascript that works well at apple and nowhere else  
… works ok in other places, but not as well  
… use it for popups in our kids books  
… works well and pops up for 3 reading systems  
… fails gracefully in 4 others  
… we feed it to Amazon  
… they ingest it  
… I consider that to be interoperable  

**Murata Makoto:** Are there no pubs dedicated to ibooks?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I have 2 titles with such extensive, convoluted, imprecise javascript  
… that it only works for ibooks  
… JS is a feature  
… making it part of a W3C standard, then an ISO standard will help pressure other reading systems to provide support  
… today, people are nervous to implement  

> *Bobby Tung:* EBPAJ EPUB 3 Creation Guide here (with English version download link) [http://ebpaj.jp/counsel/guide](http://ebpaj.jp/counsel/guide)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Is there a strong feeling that we should NOT move along the path of REC for 3.2.  
… that this will not work  

> *Murata Makoto:* Concerned but do not oppose.

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** or are we generally supportive  

**Rick Johnson:** We are not looking for blanket approval to go the whole way.  
… we want to take the next few steps to determine our course.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Great point.  

**Murata Makoto:** In Epub 3.1 some features were removed  
… others were almost removed until Japan showed evidence they were used  
… demonstrate interop  
… are we asking Japanese users to commit to similar work for 3.2?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Not sure.  
… In 3.1 we learned a lot about backward compatibility  
… noone adopted it  
… we are trying to be more deliberate  
… will need participation from Japanese publishers and reading systems that we covered the needs  

**Rick Johnson:** A fundamental requirement of 3.2 was that a 3.0 doc would be a valid 3.2 doc.  
… a reset to 3.0.1.  
… hence a small delta and very focused.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Comments?  Questions?  Concerns?  

**Murata Makoto:** Does someone have a list of features to be dropped already?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** That work has not been started.  
… it would be done in the CG.  
… figure out what to test.  

> *Rick Johnson:* [https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-changes.html](https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-changes.html)

**Bill Kasdorf:** We are not talking about dropping 3.2 features.  Are we?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We are not talking about dropping features.  We are looking at the right tests to make sure it all works.  

**Rick Johnson:** We are not talking about dropping, but people are concerned that the REC process might cause it.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Need to get through next phase.  
… no intention to drop.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Other questions?  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Direction from the BG?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Looking to the task force.  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Curious who is on the task force again?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Myself, Ivan, Garth, Tzviya, Wendy, Luc, and Dave  

**Jeff Jaffe:** might it be helpful to have someone from Japan on the task force?  

**Murata Makoto:** I am thinking of monitoring that  
… will things eventually be endorsed by PubBG  
… I should make comments in the task force.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Thanks, Makoto.  

### 2. Epub Check
{: #section2}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Development for EPUB check is underway  
… we are fundraising  
… please see if your marketplace/businesses can help crowdsource the funding.  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* [https://www.w3.org/publishing/epubcheck_fundraising](https://www.w3.org/publishing/epubcheck_fundraising)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** simple  
… sign-up  
… decide what to contribute  
… credit card or we can bill you if you prefer  

**Karen Myers:** Where are contributors acknowledged?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Contributors logos will be on download page  
… meanwhile on fundraising page  
… on track for development to be done in February  
… so we are working on enabling reading systems  
… talking to Apple  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Logos on download page does not get more donations  
… should update contributor page  

> *Karen Myers:* +1 BillK

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Names are there, but no logos yet.  
… again, Jeff will be in Asia; happy to meet  
… thanks for calling in, all.  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* [adjourned]

---
