---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-11-19
title: Publishing BG EPUB-Rec task force telco — 2018-11-19
---

# Publishing BG EPUB-Rec task force telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-11-19

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/11/19-pubtf-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Luc Audrain, Ivan Herman, Tzviya Siegman, Dave Cramer, Murata Makoto

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** 

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we've talked about all of this a lot without reaching agreement  

**Luc Audrain:** we could imagine several plans  
… and describe them, and these could serve as proposals  
… I could imagine 2-3 plans  
… one at TPAC: 3.2 as rec in PWG  
… and the PWG would be rechartered  
… with the new work item. Let's call it Plan A.  
… the second plan would be the least change. EPUB 3.2 stays in CG.  
… no rechartering for PWG  
… in the middle there may be need to recharter for adding audiopub as module of WP and changing delivery date of EPUB4  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I thought this group was going to try to make sense of the concerns of the larger groups  
… maybe we can put to rest some of the concerns, and they might be based on misconceptions  
… and we as a group might discuss what *we* want to do  
… we've mostly heard that people want to move to REC track  

> *Murata Makoto:* Yes, indeed.

**Tzviya Siegman:** we're worrying about change  

**Ivan Herman:** beyond what tzviya said  
… there are some fundamental questions we have to ask ourselves  
… which are necessary for charter, but are important even if we don't recharter  
… what does the publishing community want to achieve?  
… what are the needs, and can they happen at w3c?  
… we need an explainer for a charter proposal anyway  

**Luc Audrain:** we finished f2f with q from ivan: we'd need a clear answer from PBG before we do anything  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I felt the WG wanted 3.2, but the BG wasn't informed enough. We need to provide information to them.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** let's go to the pros/cons doc and see if we can address concerns  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17CyIqihtjjzT7Abbcq9sSqLNqLGKs2cuXdg4DcFulGY/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17CyIqihtjjzT7Abbcq9sSqLNqLGKs2cuXdg4DcFulGY/edit?usp=sharing)

**Dave Cramer:** who is our audience?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** the audience is 1. the publishing business group 2. all of those parties, perhaps with the exception of the end reader  
… we build standards so people can more easily get things out there. it's governments, education, suppliers  
… we know iso is important for some governments and educational institutions  
… if we do 3.2 but it's 3.0.1 that has ISO approval we bifurcate things  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://github.com/w3ctag/w3ctag.github.io/blob/master/explainers.md](https://github.com/w3ctag/w3ctag.github.io/blob/master/explainers.md)

**Tzviya Siegman:** when we do write this explainer, it will be read by the AC and the TAG when rechartering  

> *Dave Cramer:* an early draft: [https://github.com/dauwhe/wpub-explainer](https://github.com/dauwhe/wpub-explainer)

**Luc Audrain:** we've brought lots of information to the BG  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** back to the document, do we see any of these things in the pros as inaccurate?  

**Ivan Herman:** there are a lot of comments on the google doc  

**Luc Audrain:** what I hear is that there should be rec track on 3.2 with no change  
… so that is not a pro  

**Ivan Herman:** this came out of the need for an editorial rewrite for ISO  

**Dave Cramer:** I think we will make the spec better by doing rec track  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we want to make sure we get through this without losing features  

**Murata Makoto:** It is very important for JP publishers not to invalidate what they have sold.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we understand that  

**Murata Makoto:** Particularly so in Japan, since we have tons of EPUB32  
… What kind of adjustments?  
… Purely editorial rewrite only?  
… Yes, if the normal procedure is used.  
… then, will EPUB publications containing such non-normative features non-conforrmant?  
… Editorial improvements are fine.  

**Ivan Herman:** we define what we mean by conformance  

**Murata Makoto:** There is a definition!  
… I doubt that  
… Each spec defines conformance requirements.  
… EPUB 3.2 defines conformance requirements.  It is already there.  

> *Murata Makoto:* [https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-contentdocs.html#sec-xhtml-conf-content](https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-contentdocs.html#sec-xhtml-conf-content)

**Luc Audrain:** the requirement for two implementations is not conformance?  

**Ivan Herman:** we are looking at edge cases  
… the only time this comes up is if there is only a single implementation of a particular feature. That's the edge case.  

**Murata Makoto:** We cannot remove such a feature if some EPUB publication containing it is already sold.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** the link that makoto posted is to the conformance requirements, and it's very vague.  
… saying it must support "visual rendering of the content documents" doesn't mean it has to support all of CSS  
… we're worrying about edge cases.  

**Ivan Herman:** the point of the w3c process is to prove that every feature **can be implemented**  

> *Murata Makoto:* I think that it is too late to improse W3C style requirements on EPUB 3

**Ivan Herman:** based only on what is in the spec.  
… if we don't have that, then we have a problem. If it depends on some secret sauce, we have a problem. I don't think we'll face this  

**Murata Makoto:** I think that it is too late to improse W3C style requirements on EPUB 3  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** let's move on to resolve the point in line 10 about free of charge specs vs ISO  

**Ivan Herman:** does ISO accept a CG report as an equivalent?  

**Murata Makoto:** ISO does not really check technical equivalence.  
… If SC34 people argue that it is equivalent, ISO will believe so.  
… And make it freely available.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** are we writing this for w3c or ISO? Maybe our goal should be writing a w3c doc  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** my understanding from TPAC was, if we wrote this as w3c REC, then it could be easier to get ISO approval, and we wouldn't have to make changes for ISO version  

**Murata Makoto:** If W3C has a REC, it can easily be submitted via the PAS procedure.  

**Ivan Herman:** ISO just puts it's stamp on it, full stop. that's the PAS procedure.  
… it's an administrative step.  

**Murata Makoto:** Moreover, maintenance procedure is convenient for W3C  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** so we're not writing an ISO doc  

**Ivan Herman:** we don't have to  

**Murata Makoto:** For example, ISO/IEC imposes a tough rule about registries.  
… If we use the normal procedure, we cannot use Schema.org.  
… If we use the fast-track procedure or PAS procedure, we can.  

**Ivan Herman:** there's no problem with schema via W3C  

**Murata Makoto:** A11Y does.  
… Has to be moved to techniques.  

**Luc Audrain:** we are aware of this move to techniques  

**Luc Audrain:** the work in the CG didn't have real impact on WPUB until now  

**Ivan Herman:** I don't want to get into personal comments  

**Tzviya Siegman:** row 7: that's not a concern because we don't intend to drop features  

**Murata Makoto:** Still concerned.  
… I do not understand what you mean by "non-normative".  

**Tzviya Siegman:** row 8: ocf might be in conflict with packaging  
… if we have technical concerns about features it's better to resolve them within the working group, rather than across groups  

**Ivan Herman:** simpler than coordinating two groups  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I don't think it's a concern  

**Tzviya Siegman:** the point about having chairs from Asia is valid but not a con for rec-track EPUB  
… if we can people involved in the testing it can force adoption. I dont think it will slow adoption  

> *Murata Makoto:* I don't think that JP publishers care ISO standardization.

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** there's confusion with people who are still on EPUB 2  
… we know it's fine to go 3, safe to go to 3,0.1 or 3.2  

**Luc Audrain:** the con is slowing adoption of EPUB 3?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** maybe the con is that it requires a clarification of the timing of all of this  

**Luc Audrain:** my concern is that 3.2 rec track will upset adoption  

**Tzviya Siegman:** we could call what we have now as a beta version of 3.2  

**Ivan Herman:** why is this different than we plan to work on testing in CG?  
… if people realize we are testing, it sends the same message  
… and most outsiders wont understand the difference between CG and WG  

**Ivan Herman:** do you think we don't need to test the spec?  
… any implementation has effects on the spec  

**Luc Audrain:** one of the first implementation is epubcheck  
… so there are some editorial changes needed  

**Ivan Herman:** great!  

**Dave Cramer:** testing will improve bugs and the spec  
… it is a part of it to say that the implementation is testable  
… testable assertions for reading systems and for publications  
… testing the community group will do will focus on the requirements of the reading systems  

**Murata Makoto:** I need more clear definition of what you mean by "making some features non-normative"  

---
